Look. Maya.
You need to listen.
I have a new target.
You need to leave.
Both of you.
You need to pack the car and get away.
As far away from here as possible.
All right, easy there, easy there.
Seriously, throttle back...
...or I might get the impression
you're gonna miss me.
I've been flying choppers for 40 years...
...from Air America to Hudson Sky Tours,
and I gotta admit...
...I hated every minute of it.
Listening to Marty defending
his pathetic Cubs...
Cubbies!
The only reason I ever put up
with the guy was because...
...he's the best damn mechanic
in the business.
Grew up in Wrigleyville.
I could say the same about all of you.
It's been a pleasure working with you.
If you ever get to Palm Desert, please...
...promise me you won't call.
- Cheers!
- Cheers.
Wrigleyville. How you know Warren?
Charter service.
Shuttling the 1 percent.
- I'm a mechanic too.
- Can't fly without us.
Hold on.
Won't be long.
Hello, Masha. I know it's late,
but I wanted to speak to you alone.
- Where is she?
- I never wanted you to be apart.
Where's my daughter?
Right here. Safe.
If you so much as... If you hurt her...
I know the truth.
The only reason you came for me,
the only reason you want Agnes...
...is because of what's killing you.
It's a genetic disease...
...and you think we can...
...cure you, that our blood can...
Yes. The blood is what I need,
but it's not what I want.
What I want is to be together...
...but that can't happen
until Reddington's out of your life.
Only you can make that happen.
I see you're wearing
your mother's bracelet.
I'm glad.
I want you to know
that your baby is safe.
This link is open day or night...
...any time you want to see Agnes.
Hi, baby.
What do you mean,
you don't want to trace the link?
You don't think he's thought of that?
The second he discovers we traced it,
he'll take it away. Take her away.
The only way we'll get her
is by finding where it's coming from.
- I don't think he'll hurt her.
- He will. She's his last chance of survival.
- If he hurts her, he loses me.
- Yeah. And lives.
What does Kirk want more
than anything in the world?
For me to trust him.
To care for him.
And because it's what he desires most,
it's the easiest way to deceive him.
He'll see what he wants to see,
my affection.
He won't see what's real, my deception.
This link is an opportunity
for me to get close to Kirk...
...and I can't do anything
to jeopardize that.
- Liz, I think you're being naïve.
- I know you think that...
...and I'm asking you to trust me.
Dembe said you had a lead on Agnes?
Some years ago...
...I had a rather awkward encounter
with a bull shark...
...while diving off the Great Barrier Reef.
I actually think it was trying
to be affectionate...
...even a little forward.
The net result was excruciating.
But I did spend a glorious month...
...submitting to the healing hands
of an utterly divine lighthouse keeper...
...on Bramble Cay...
...a low-lying island
that's rapidly being submerged...
...by rising sea levels
due to climate change.
Climate change?
Our next Blacklister is devoted
to protecting the Earth...
...from the greatest threat
to its existence as we know it: Us.
He's a stealth eco-terrorist
known only as Gaia...
..."Earth Mother" in Greek mythology.
Okay, so the connection between
this Earth Mother and Agnes is what?
What is not relevant. Only where.
We must find this man.
Unless you have a better lead on Kirk.
- Has he reached out to you?
- No, he hasn't.
- Gaia, then.
- A stealth eco-terrorist?
Isn't that an oxymoron?
Nine times out of 10, the public
reacts to an act of eco-terror...
...by getting angry at the terrorist...
...rather than the environmental offense
he seeks to draw attention to.
By disguising his sabotage
in "accidents"...
...Gaia succeeds in focusing
the public's rage on the actual danger...
...not the criminal who exposes it.
Shall I go on?
2011. Ten thousand gallons of MCHM,
a toxic chemical used to wash coal...
...was leaked
from the Fullerton Chemical Plant.
Now, this spill made it
into the drinking water in the local towns.
A few hundred were poisoned...
...including two children
and three elderly victims who died.
Environmentalists had warned
of the danger of a spill for years...
...but no one listened until this leak.
And then the EPA
finally mandated changes.
So it worked.
In Gaia's mind, he protected people.
Well, tell that to the parents
who lost their kids.
He kills innocents to make a point
that people are in danger.
How does taking him down
get us closer to Kirk?
Reddington won't say.
Even though this is allegedly
about finding your daughter.
- What a prick.
- I want this guy found.
Go over every detail of that spill.
If it was sabotage, Gaia left a trail.
Find it.
Hey.
So about last night, sorry we couldn't talk.
But if you wanna grab lunch and chat...
- It's okay, I figured it out.
- Figured what out?
Whether or not to submit
my transfer request.
I decided I should. So I did.
So it's official?
I knew you were thinking about it...
- ...but you...
- It's not a big deal.
- It's for the best.
- Right.
Sure. That is...
You've given it a lot of thought, so...
Congratulations.
I shouldn't keep Ressler waiting.
This is crazy. A team
of Chemical Safety Board investigators...
...looked into this after the spill.
Nothing was flagged.
This is box seven.
There are 43 more evidence boxes.
- Googled Aram's new girlfriend.
- Why?
Why do guys do anything?
To see if she was hot. Which she is.
I thought we had everything.
Everything from CSB.
These are from the internal investigation.
You're wasting your time.
That spill was an accident.
Two days before the leak...
...a veteran DEP inspector
looked over the storage tanks.
He didn't see anything wrong,
neither did the guy two weeks earlier.
What other guy? I looked at the list
of scheduled inspections.
- There was only one in the month prior.
- Scheduled, yeah.
But we get spot inspections.
We're gonna need everything
you have on that spot inspector now.
Borron Energy Services.
That's fracking, right?
Well, I'm a field inspector.
That's bad stuff, man.
Fracking. Messing up the water table.
There's places you can light a fire
with what's coming out of the tap.
You're making people sick.
You wanna know
what's in your sweetener?
Chemicals in that creamer?
What about the plastic bottles
in that cooler?
Look around.
Everything's killing us.
So spare me the guilt trip
and the righteous lecture.
I earn my living...
...same as you.
You're right.
This world is just filled
with things that are gonna kill us.
Okay, ladies and gentlemen,
I think we have a suspect.
Okay, check this out.
The Kentucky chemical plant
wasn't the only facility...
...that received a visit
from a spot inspector.
Three other "accident" sites
received spot inspections...
- ...within a few weeks of their failing.
- So that's this guy's MO.
He's not breaking in,
he's walking through the front door.
- You said you had a suspect.
- Right.
I got surveillance video
from three of the facilities...
...on this particular spot inspector.
- That's our guy.
- Alert DHS and circulate the photo.
Put a name to that face.
Hey.
- You okay?
- Yeah, I'm fine.
Because Aram told me
you put in for a transfer.
Navabi, trust me...
...I get how angry you are at Keen
for what she did...
Yes. That is part of why I'm leaving,
but it's not just that.
It's this place.
You never know where you stand
with anyone.
If they'll be there when you need them.
If there's anything that I can do
to get you to reconsider, let me know.
I'll do it. You're a good partner.
I wish there was.
I really do.
- Six months?
- Maybe. Maybe less.
But we both knew
this day was coming...
...when your body would
start rejecting transfusions.
It's remarkable it's lasted this long.
- There is a solution.
- We've already discussed this.
- It's unacceptable.
- Easy for you to say.
- You're not the one that's gonna die.
- No, I am.
- And I agree with Sebastian.
- The girl is your only option.
- We're exploring other cures.
- We were.
Before we lost the Ribowski virus.
Before the U.S. government
froze your assets.
If the girl is a genetic match,
and there's no guarantee that she is...
...extracting stem cells
from such a young child...
...is extremely dangerous
and could prove fatal.
Hippocrates bounds the doc
to do no harm.
He's giving you "coulds." "Mights."
I am under no such obligation.
I am giving you facts.
We are out of time
and we are out of resources.
The only way to save your life...
...is if we put that child's in jeopardy.
I think we've got something.
We put out an alert
to government and private facilities.
- Oil and gas, chemical plants.
- And?
A gas pipeline inspector in Newark
was found dead in his car this morning.
- Heart attack.
- Could be coincidence.
Maybe, but he had an appointment
to evaluate a gas pipeline in Westchester.
- He's there.
- Was there a positive ID?
- No, but...
- So it's a supposition.
No, actually.
According to security at the facility,
a guy showed up less than an hour ago...
...claiming to be filling in
for the inspector.
Ressler, Navabi, get there.
Keen, call the plant manager and sheriff.
See if they can evacuate the area
without tipping off Gaia that we're coming.
- Agents Navabi, Ressler. Where is he?
- Sector 7.
Said he had to check
the pressure gauges.
Stop! Federal agent!
He's got a gun!
Ressler!
Step out of the vehicle!
Let's see your hands!
Damnit.
Long time, Martell.
Or whatever you're calling yourself now.
Martell will be fine.
- You?
- There's a bunch to choose from.
England, France, Malta,
your basic NATO alliance.
Malta's not in NATO.
Always were a stickler.
Why don't we just stick with Krantz?
So, what's on your mind, Martell?
I got a job for you and your crew.
Digital trace. Break-in.
I'm all ears.
The pipeline targeted by Gaia
carries fracked gas...
...a process
that environmentalists oppose.
Why? Because fracking creates jobs
and energy independence?
Maybe. Or maybe because of this.
San Bruno, 2010.
A ruptured natural gas pipeline
caused a 72-foot-long crater...
...and killed eight people.
Last year in Allentown, another exploded
under the city street, killing five.
It fits the MO.
He was gonna cause an accident
to provoke public outrage.
Yeah, but how?
We didn't find any explosives.
- What was he doing?
- Research.
Look where Gaia's tools
and fake ID badge were found.
At the spot
with the highest gas pressure.
He was trying to identify the most
vulnerable point, the perfect place to hit.
If it's that dangerous,
why hasn't it been shut down?
There are safety rules
for new pipelines...
...but they don't always apply
for existing lines.
Probably the point he's trying to make.
It gets worse, actually.
An expert over at PHMSA
did a blast radius projection...
...just to see what kind of damage
an explosion at this spot would cause.
In an urban area like this...
...we're talking hundreds of homes,
schools, a city hospital...
...and this: Stone Park.
The largest nuclear power plant
on the U.S. Eastern Seaboard.
Where are we on the fake badge
you recovered?
Nowhere. Reddington's got a guy
who might be able to help.
Reddington's guy...
...who is he?
Forgive the intrusion, keglers.
- What do you want?
- I have a job for you, Glen.
News flash:
- I'm off the clock, Reddington.
- It's a matter of some urgency.
No, it's a matter of some me time.
Boundaries. Work-life balance.
- The pause that refreshes.
- We need to know who made this ID.
Your release point is off.
But I'm a charming conversationalist,
so the ladies don't mind.
Keep your elbows in.
Some haste would be appreciated.
A child's life is in the balance.
Hologram. RFID chip.
Ji Ming's your man. Chinese ex-pat.
Loves all things Americano.
Last time we had dinner,
he ordered bull fries.
You ever had bull...?
Ji Ming! Jellybean here.
...that's what I'm saying.
There was no address.
He was way out in the woods.
Allegheny County.
All I need is an address, Glen.
Off 687. South of Falling Spring.
Mile off the road there's a path.
Hold on. You're gonna need
to write this down.
- Glen. An address.
- Hey!
I don't see you jumping in here, pal.
I'm doing the best I can.
A night course in Mandarin
doesn't get past reading menus...
...and "Honey, your caboose
looks tasty in those slacks."
There was a trail.
You turn at a tree.
An old oak tree.
What the hell's he saying?
Honestly?
He says he doesn't like you.
Says you look like his third wife
and that, what?
Right, that you have no appreciation
for the fact that bowling is like sex.
It's about rhythm and flow.
You can't stop in the middle and go back
to pick up the spare you missed...
...because some jerk shouted out
during the middle of your roll.
He's already given you the address.
Yeah. But it's a little off the grid.
I'd ditch the wingtips.
Dembe, call Elizabeth.
What do you see?
He's withdrawn, a loner...
...and yet he's committed
to making the world a cleaner place.
Photo of a pregnant woman...
...but no child.
Maybe the child was taken, or...
Or died.
We're going to get her back, Lizzy.
Tidal charts for the Hudson.
Stone Park is on the Hudson.
Leave or I'll call the police.
I'm only here because you didn't
return my calls. It's not safe.
- You're violating the restraining order...
- I'm the least of your problems. Leave.
Your mother's isn't far enough.
- What are you planning?
- You need to leave the state.
Hey, Sky.
How's my little man?
You're going on a car trip with Mommy.
Someplace pretty.
With trees turning all kinds of colors.
Won't that be nice?
You need to get on the road.
Now.
Hey there.
What happened out there, young lady?
You're not dressed for the woods.
Can you talk?
Well, that's all right.
You don't need to say nothing.
We gotta get you fed.
Build your strength up.
Plenty of time to talk later.
- Hey.
- I'm looking at our little girl.
It's almost like a baby monitor,
like she's in the next room.
Only she's not. Kirk has her.
I know.
I asked you this morning to trust me,
not to trace the link.
I want you to know
it means everything to me...
...that you are okay with that.
- Thank you.
- Everything's gonna be all right, Liz.
Blow her a kiss for me.
Okay.
- I love you.
- I love you too.
I know you.
It's your daughter,
you're gonna wanna be first one in.
Let us take the lead.
No use rescuing your daughter
if Daddy winds up dead.
- Your guys are sure about this?
- We traced the server.
This island, that house.
Your baby's inside.
Let's do it.
I'm disappointed in you.
- Don't...
- I thought we had an understanding.
- What are you talking about?
- You traced this feed.
No, I didn't.
There must be some mistake.
Wait. That had nothing to do with me.
- I'm sorry, Masha.
- No, I told Tom.
I specifically said...
No! Please bring her back.
I'm begging you, bring her back!
Okay, sweetheart.
We gotta get you upright.
You've been down too long.
I'm gonna put my hand
behind your neck, just like a dance.
Here we go.
Nice and easy. One.
Two.
Okay. There we go.
No big thing.
You got a lot of grit
for such a little girl.
You hungry?
Do you understand me?
Can you nod?
That's good.
You in some kind of trouble,
sweetheart?
The men that did this...
...they coming back for you?
What is it?
What are you trying to say?
Thank you.
- I'm not into pregnant chicks.
- I need you to find her.
Are you a comedian?
Here once a night, twice on Sunday?
- I already bailed you out.
- I need you to find this woman...
- ...and her child, if there is one.
- You don't get it. We lost.
This tournament's a bitch to get into.
We made it here, this close...
...and we lost because of me.
Because I missed a baby split.
I don't understand bowling.
Of course you don't.
I'm sorry, Glen.
I'm sorry.
Come on, I'm squeezing your cheese!
Thanks to your better half,
we swept the tourney.
Elbow in,
release point sweet as a sister's kiss.
You're talking to the team captain
of the newly-crowned...
...Mid-Atlantic Champs!
This preggo chick...
...tell me about her.
I'm feeling good!
I'm not here now. Leave a message
and I'll call you back.
Tom? What the hell did you...?
No, no, no. Excuse me, doctor.
I was just... It doesn't matter.
The tidal charts.
Were you able to review them?
Owen Ayers, former officer in the Navy.
Found his name on receipts
from Gaia's trailer.
Ayers was a helicopter pilot,
before that an enlisted aircraft mechanic.
Three tours in Iraq. Decorated.
This guy's a war hero.
Medical discharge in 2012...
...after participating
in Operation Meltdown.
The U.S. military relief effort
in Mauritania.
Flew into an unscheduled
emergency venting of radioactive gas.
He and his crew
got radiation poisoning.
He was the victim of a meltdown.
Now he wants to cause one.
It's worse than we thought.
The tidal charts, can you pull them up?
He wasn't just tracking tides
on the Hudson.
He was calculating the exact time
of the super moon.
- It happens only every couple decades...
- Causing unusually high and low tides.
These charts identify exactly when
the Hudson will be at its lowest.
Stone Park sits on the Hudson.
They cool their reactors
by drawing water from the river.
Over two billion gallons per day.
We know an explosion in the pipeline...
...will damage the reactor at Stone Park.
What if, on top of that...
...the reactor couldn't get enough water
to cool the core?
Ayers wasn't trying to send a message
about the danger of nuclear power.
- He's trying to recreate Mauritania.
- How? The pipeline's in lockdown.
He can't get close.
From the ground anyway.
Hudson Sky Tours.
This brochure was in his trailer.
He knows the maintenance
and flight schedules.
Do they operate in that area?
Guys, look at this.
Martin Powell, one of their mechanics...
...had a heart attack in a bar
a few days ago.
- How long before the tides are lowest?
- Any time within the next hour and a half.
Get me Homeland. Keen, notify NRC.
Aram, have security at the pipeline
and Stone Park...
...and make sure the N.Y.P.D.
and Harbor Patrol get everybody out.
Call the tour company
and get out there.
Make sure Ayers never gets a chopper
off the ground.
Arnie Gelber.
Here to cooperate any way I can.
- What's the status of your fleet?
- We're secure.
Only got three choppers.
Two are in the air with my best pilots.
One's on a 30,
the other's on a full hour tour.
- What about the third?
- Grounded.
Had to cancel half a dozen trips today.
Smack in the heart of the season.
The third chopper. Where is it now?
Being repaired.
One of my mechanics
passed away a few nights ago.
We're all dealing with the loss.
- I got a new man working on it now.
- We need to talk to him now.
What the hell?
Sky Three, please respond. Sky Three.
- Please respond.
- Owen Ayers.
This is Special Agent Ressler of the FBI
ordering you to return to home base.
Mr. Ayers, this is FBI Agent...
I heard you the first time.
I won't be doing that.
Alert the White House and the FAA
to authorize an intercept.
We will shoot you down
if you do not return immediately.
You can't scramble fighters fast enough.
I've gamed this out to the last detail.
Give me some credit,
Agent Ressler of the FBI.
How long
before he reaches the pipeline?
Two minutes. Maybe less.
If your next bright idea is
to have them shut the pipeline down...
...sorry, that takes three whole days.
Notify local authorities to immediately
activate evacuation protocols.
Aram, we need options.
I can try
and hack into the on board avionics...
...try and take control.
Don't do this.
- Someone has to.
- There are other ways.
What? Protests? Hearings?
They've had them.
No one listens.
They'll listen to this.
Aram.
No luck.
I can't access the AFCS directly...
...and even if I could,
there's an automatic fail-safe.
You can't go through with this.
Millions of innocent people will die.
Now, that's an interesting formulation.
"Innocent people."
Innocent of what?
Of wanting their houses warmed,
their cars fueled...
...with no regard for how any of that
fouls our air, our water, our planet?
I'm a dead man walking,
thanks to nuclear power.
It poisoned my innocent, unborn son...
...into someone people look at
as if he's a monster!
Now, whoever dies from this,
they've got it coming.
- One minute!
- I may have something.
I've hacked into something called
the Stability Augmentation System.
I think I can feed data into
the Heading Reference System centers.
- Override the controls.
- Can't you shut down the rotor?
- You mean...
- I mean turn the damn thing off.
Right. Right.
- I got it. I got it.
- Then do it.
Yeah...
- What's wrong?
- If I click on this, he'll die.
I killed somebody once.
I can't take another life.
Come on!
No!
I'm sorry.
For what? You did your job.
And then I did mine.
Hello, Maya.
You're a difficult woman to find.
- Who are you?
- And you must be Skyler.
My name is Raymond.
I've been looking forward
to meeting you, Skyler.
Did Owen send you?
Is that why you're here?
No. But from what I understand...
...your ex-husband poses
no further threat.
You have nothing to fear
and no reason to run anymore.
- Are you with the police?
- Oh, my goodness, no.
I'm simply an interested third party
who needs your assistance.
Here we go.
One chocolate, one strawberry...
...and one caramel.
Forgive me, I took the liberty.
In my experience,
caramel sauce is an excellent lubricant...
...when it comes
to awkward introductions.
Skyler, any chance I could convince
you to go thirds with us on these?
That's all you want?
To meet with Sky's doctor?
- His hematologist, yes.
- Do you have a child with special needs?
Picasso said it took four years
to paint like Raphael...
...but a lifetime to paint like a child.
They live in a delightful space...
...somewhere between dreams
and reality.
They taste color,
hear shapes, see sounds.
We should all have such special needs.
There is a child.
Her life hangs in the balance.
I believe Skyler's doctor could save her.
Hey, hey. Nice work today.
It is no small thing to prevent Manhattan
from being unlivable.
As opposed to unaffordable.
You made the wrong call today.
I'm sorry you think so.
Is there anything else?
No, that... That's it.
- Mr. Cooper understood.
- He was trying to make you feel better.
- Your girlfriend will too.
- Is that what this is about?
The fact that I have a girlfriend?
You put people's lives at risk.
It's more important to me
than whether or not you have a girlfriend.
You know what?
- Forget it.
- Mind closing the door on your way out?
You know when I congratulated you
on submitting your transfer request?
I didn't mean it.
I was trying to make you feel better.
Because that's the polite thing to do.
And I like being polite.
What I wanted to say was...
...I'm glad you're going.
As far as I'm concerned,
you can't go fast enough.
- We talked about this! We agreed.
- On how you felt. I told you I disagreed.
What you didn't tell me is that
you were gonna do something about it.
Instead, you went behind my back
and did exactly what I told you not to do.
- And with Reddington's help.
- It wasn't Reddington.
- Then who?
- A guy I used to work with.
When you were a skinhead,
one of Berlin's thugs?
Because I'm guessing
it wasn't a school teacher.
I'm not gonna fight about this, Liz.
I did what I thought was best!
And nobody is sorrier than me
that it didn't work!
Oh, no, I know someone who is sorrier.
Our daughter, who now,
because of you, is God-knows-where.
I know you don't want to...
...but you need to use the child.
You asked me how this case
is connected to finding Agnes.
Owen Ayers and his son Skyler
share a rare blood disorder.
But Dr. Sebastian Reifler is one
with a particularly relevant distinction.
He treats both Skyler Ayers
and Alexander Kirk.
If we can get to his doctor,
we can get to Kirk.
We're getting close, Lizzy.
It won't be long now.
I lied to you.
You asked if Kirk had reached out
and I told you he hadn't.
That wasn't true.
He set up a link...
...a video feed so I could see Agnes.
How incredibly cruel.
Tom tried to trace the link,
tried to find Agnes...
- ...but Kirk found out and now...
- She's gone.
I thought I could make it better,
that I could protect my baby.
I mean, that's my one job...
...to protect my child...
...make her feel safe at any cost...
...to hold her...
...to tell her everything's gonna be okay.
But now because of me,
because of what I've done...
...I can't even do that.
Forgive the Shanghai summons,
Dr. Reifler...
...but I have a matter of some urgency
we must discuss.
You.
I don't... I don't understand.
- Skyler Ayers...
- Is doing fine.
It's another patient of yours
I'm interested in.
Please, I don't... I can't help.
Oh, yes, you can.
And you will...
...by allowing me to accompany you...
...on your next house call
to Alexander Kirk.